README.md, before:

# Description

**redux-i18n** is a simple and powerful package for translate your *react* application with *react-redux*.

[![redux-i18n in Travis](https://travis-ci.org/APSL/redux-i18n.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/APSL/redux-i18n)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/redux-i18n.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/redux-i18n)
![downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/redux-i18n.svg)

## Install

```
npm i redux-i18n --save
```

## Features

* Tool for translating your React projects.
* Designed to react-redux.
* Compatible with Immutable.js.
* You can export your translations into POT files (Poedit).
* You can import from .PO files to *translations.js* object.
* You can add comments for translators.

## Requirements

* node >= 4.0.0

## How to use

This package provide a parent component that encapsulate your application. See this example for understand it.

```javascript
import I18n from "redux-i18n"
// with Immutable.js:
import I18n from "redux-i18n/immutable"

import {translations} from "./translations"

class MainApp extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <I18n translations={translations}>
        <div>
            <h1>My Project</h1>
            {this.props.children}
        </div>
      </I18n>
    )
  }
}
```

Where *translations* is a dictionary as this:

```javascript
export const translations = {
  es: {
    "Translate this text": "Traduce este texto",
    "Hello {n}!": "Hola {n}!",
  }
}
```

## Setting the reducer

In your *combineReducers* you should add **i18nState** reducer.

```javascript
import {otherreducers} from "./Yourproject"

import {i18nState} from "redux-i18n"
// with Immutable.js:
import {i18nState} from "redux-i18n/immutable"

const appReducer = combineReducers({
    otherreducers,
    i18nState
})
```

Now, you can connect *lang* attribute in your component:

```javascript
export default connect(state => ({
  lang: state.i18nState.lang,
}))(Home)
```

## Translating the content

You can access to a *I18n's* functions with your component's context. For example:

```javascript
Home.contextTypes = {
  t: React.PropTypes.func.isRequired
}
```

And then, you can use *i18n* function in your render method.

```javascript
render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <strong>Your current language, is: {this.props.lang}</strong><br/>
        {this.context.t("Translate this text")}<br/>
        {this.context.t("Hello {n}!", {n: "Cesc"})}<br/><br/>
        <button onClick={this.changeLanguage.bind(this)}>Change Language</button>
      </div>
    )
}
```

You can translate date formats, too.

```javascript
render() {
    let today = moment()
    return (
      <div>
        {today.format(this.context.t("YYYY-MM-DD"))}
      </div>
    )
}
```

Its possible add comments for translators, too.

```javascript
render() {
    return (
      <div>
        {this.context.t("Translate this text", {},
                        "This is a comment for translator.")}
        {this.context.t("Hello {n}!", {n: "Cesc"},
                        "An another comment.")}
      </div>
    )
}
```

Transate can be used in stateless componens also.

```javascript
const Foo = ({}, context) => <h1>{context.t("Hello World")}</h1>
```

## Changing the language

This library has a *setLanguage* action. You can use as follow:

```javascript
import {setLanguage} from "redux-i18n"

componentWillMount() {
    this.props.dispatch(setLanguage("es"))
}
```

## Extract/import scripts

This package have two scripts for extract texts to a *template.pot* and import texts from *po* file to a *translation.js* file.

For use this scripts, you should edit your *package.json* and add both scripts.

```json
    "scripts": {
        "extract": "i18n_extract",
        "import": "i18n_import"
    }
```

In this example I have used *extract* and *import* name for scripts, but you can use any. For run one of any scripts:

```
npm run extract
npm run import
```

## Extract texts and generate template.pot

```
npm run extract
```

This script search all results inside **src** folder with a regular expression and generate a **locales/template.pot** file. This file can be used with [Poedit](https://poedit.net/) application for generate *en.po*, *es.po*, etc. files.

You should save your *po* files inside *locales* folder.

If you want set other source folder, you can use *source* parameter.

```json
    "scripts": {
        "extract": "i18n_extract --source=mysource",
        "import": "i18n_import"
    }
```

Or if you want set other *locales* folder:

```json
    "scripts": {
        "extract": "i18n_extract --source=mysource --locales=mylocales",
        "import": "i18n_import"
    }
```

The default *regex* pattern finds all occurrences of *this.context.t*, but if you want to use your custom pattern, see this example:

```javascript
export default function App({aProp, bProp}, {t: translate}) {
    return <div>{translate('Hello world!')}</div>;
}
```

In *package.json*:

```json
    "scripts": {
        "extract": "i18n_extract --pattern=translate",
        "import": "i18n_import"
    }
```

If you have added comments for translator, you will see this into Poedit.

![Poedit screenshot](imgs/poedit1.jpg?raw=true "Poedit screenshot")


## Import your .po files

```
npm run import
```

This script load all po files inside you *locales* folder, extract all translations and build a **src/translations.js** that you will use in your application.

You can set other *locales* folder:

```json
    "scripts": {
        "extract": "i18n_extract --source=mysource --locales=mylocales",
        "import": "i18n_import --locales=mylocales"
    }
```

If you want save *translation.js* file to other folder:

```json
    "scripts": {
        "extract": "i18n_extract --source=mysource --locales=mylocales",
        "import": "i18n_import --locales=mylocales --translations=myfolder"
    }
```

Commit message:

Documentation updated, pluralize and unit tests improved

README.md, after:

# Description

**redux-i18n** is a simple and powerful package for translate your *react* application with *react-redux*.

[![redux-i18n in Travis](https://travis-ci.org/APSL/redux-i18n.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/APSL/redux-i18n)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/redux-i18n.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/redux-i18n)
![downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/redux-i18n.svg)

## Install

```
npm i redux-i18n --save
```

## Features

* Tool for translating your React projects.
* Designed to react-redux.
* Compatible with Immutable.js.
* You can export your translations into POT files (Poedit).
* You can import from .PO files to *translations.js* object.
* You can add comments for translators.

## Requirements

* node >= 4.0.0

## How to use

This package provide a parent component that encapsulate your application. See this example for understand it.

```javascript
import I18n from "redux-i18n"
// with Immutable.js:
import I18n from "redux-i18n/immutable"

import {translations} from "./translations"

class MainApp extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <I18n translations={translations}>
        <div>
            <h1>My Project</h1>
            {this.props.children}
        </div>
      </I18n>
    )
  }
}
```

Where *translations* is a dictionary as this:

```javascript
export const translations = {
  es: {
    "Translate this text": "Traduce este texto",
    "Hello {n}!": "Hola {n}!",
  }
}
```

## Setting the reducer

In your *combineReducers* you should add **i18nState** reducer.

```javascript
import {otherreducers} from "./Yourproject"

import {i18nState} from "redux-i18n"
// with Immutable.js:
import {i18nState} from "redux-i18n/immutable"

const appReducer = combineReducers({
    otherreducers,
    i18nState
})
```

Now, you can connect *lang* attribute in your component:

```javascript
export default connect(state => ({
  lang: state.i18nState.lang,
}))(Home)
```

## Translating the content

You can access to a *I18n's* functions with your component's context. For example:

```javascript
Home.contextTypes = {
  t: React.PropTypes.func.isRequired
}
```

And then, you can use *i18n* function in your render method.

```javascript
render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <strong>Your current language, is: {this.props.lang}</strong><br/>
        {this.context.t("Translate this text")}<br/>
        {this.context.t("Hello {n}!", {n: "Cesc"})}<br/><br/>
        <button onClick={this.changeLanguage.bind(this)}>Change Language</button>
      </div>
    )
}
```

You can translate date formats, too.

```javascript
render() {
    let today = moment()
    return (
      <div>
        {today.format(this.context.t("YYYY-MM-DD"))}
      </div>
    )
}
```

Its possible add comments for translators, too.

```javascript
render() {
    return (
      <div>
        {this.context.t("Translate this text", {},
                        "This is a comment for translator.")}
        {this.context.t("Hello {n}!", {n: "Cesc"},
                        "An another comment.")}
      </div>
    )
}
```

Transate can be used in stateless componens also.

```javascript
const Foo = ({}, context) => <h1>{context.t("Hello World")}</h1>
```

## Pluralize

Now is possible use plurals in your translations.

```javascript
<div>{this.context.t(['una noche', '{n} noches', 'n'], {n: 1})}</div>
```

Instead pass a string as first parameter, now you can pass a list. The first parameter of list is the text in singular, the second, the text in plural and finally the attribute name of params dictionary which is used for indicate quantity.

After extract translations to POT file and if you open it with Poedit you will see the follow:

![Poedit screenshot](imgs/poedit2.jpg?raw=true "Poedit screenshot")

## Changing the language

This library has a *setLanguage* action. You can use as follow:

```javascript
import {setLanguage} from "redux-i18n"

componentWillMount() {
    this.props.dispatch(setLanguage("es"))
}
```

## Extract/import scripts

This package have two scripts for extract texts to a *template.pot* and import texts from *po* file to a *translation.js* file.

For use this scripts, you should edit your *package.json* and add both scripts.

```json
    "scripts": {
        "extract": "i18n_extract",
        "import": "i18n_import"
    }
```

In this example I have used *extract* and *import* name for scripts, but you can use any. For run one of any scripts:

```
npm run extract
npm run import
```

## Extract texts and generate template.pot

```
npm run extract
```

This script search all results inside **src** folder with a regular expression and generate a **locales/template.pot** file. This file can be used with [Poedit](https://poedit.net/) application for generate *en.po*, *es.po*, etc. files.

You should save your *po* files inside *locales* folder.

If you want set other source folder, you can use *source* parameter.

```json
    "scripts": {
        "extract": "i18n_extract --source=mysource",
        "import": "i18n_import"
    }
```

Or if you want set other *locales* folder:

```json
    "scripts": {
        "extract": "i18n_extract --source=mysource --locales=mylocales",
        "import": "i18n_import"
    }
```

The default *regex* pattern finds all occurrences of *this.context.t*, but if you want to use your custom pattern, see this example:

```javascript
export default function App({aProp, bProp}, {t: translate}) {
    return <div>{translate('Hello world!')}</div>;
}
```

In *package.json*:

```json
    "scripts": {
        "extract": "i18n_extract --pattern=translate",
        "import": "i18n_import"
    }
```

If you have added comments for translator, you will see this into Poedit.

![Poedit screenshot](imgs/poedit1.jpg?raw=true "Poedit screenshot")


## Import your .po files

```
npm run import
```

This script load all po files inside you *locales* folder, extract all translations and build a **src/translations.js** that you will use in your application.

You can set other *locales* folder:

```json
    "scripts": {
        "extract": "i18n_extract --source=mysource --locales=mylocales",
        "import": "i18n_import --locales=mylocales"
    }
```

If you want save *translation.js* file to other folder:

```json
    "scripts": {
        "extract": "i18n_extract --source=mysource --locales=mylocales",
        "import": "i18n_import --locales=mylocales --translations=myfolder"
    }
```
